# Security

Bitcoin is one of the largest computer networks in the world. It is a distributed, peer-to-peer network with no central server, storage repository, or owner that can be influenced or attacked. There is also no central administrator. The ledger is maintained by miners with an equal amount of influence on the network, and anybody who wishes to commit some of their computational power can become a miner. More than one million ASIC miners currently secure the Bitcoin network, and they are located everywhere from Australia to Zambia. ASIC miners are customized to secure one specific network and they use computational power to solve complex mathematical problems. The machine that finds the correct solution can create a new block on the network and the miner responsible is then given a block reward in BTC.&#x20;

The large distribution of Bitcoin miners around the world is what makes the Bitcoin blockchain so secure. If someone wanted to attack the network it would be ridiculously expensive and time-consuming to do so. An attacker would need to own over half of Bitcoin's hashrate, which is the total computational power that is being used to create and store transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain. Some people in the Bitcoin community are worried about the possibility of a coordinated state attack. This is because there were more Bitcoin miners in China than in every other country in the world combined. However, china recently pushed out many Bitcoin miners ahead of the release of their own centralized cryptocurrency, the Digital Yuan. This means the possibility of the Chinese government seizing control of miners and forcing a 51% attack against Bitcoin is no longer a threat. Many of these miners have relocated to various countries around the world. Therefore, further decentralizing and securing the network. This increased decentralization and security further enhance the value proposition of the number one cryptocurrency.&#x20;

Some members of the bitcoin security also worry about the potential future threat posed by super powerful "quantum computers" which may be able to break the security of people's encrypted private keys. However, solutions to mitigate the potential risks are already being worked on. Some are as simple as moving one's coins to an unused special address type and others to migrate to an updated quantum-resistant network. It is important to note that quantum computing is still in its infancy and it's unknown how far out this threat really is.&#x20;
