# Appendix: Blockchain Glossary from A - Z

****[**51% Attack**](../archive/public-chain/)**:** When a single individual or group has more than half of the computing power, that individual or group can take control of the entire cryptocurrency network, and if they have some malicious intent, they can potentially send conflicting transactions to corrupt the entire network.

**Address:** A cryptocurrency address is used to send or receive transactions on the network. Addresses are usually represented as numeric characters.

**ASIC (Application Specific Integrated Circuit):** Short for "Application Specific Integrated Circuit". Often, ASICs are used exclusively for mining and may save a lot of energy compared to GPUs.

****[**Bitcoin**](../applications/bitcoins/)**:** Bitcoin is the first decentralized, open-source cryptocurrency operating on a global peer-to-peer network, without the need for intermediaries and centralized issuers.

****[**Block**](../backgrounds/blockchain-structure.md)**:** A block is a packet of data that carries a permanent record of data on a blockchain network.

****[**Blockchain**](../backgrounds/types-of-blockchain.md)**:** A blockchain is a shared, distributed ledger in which transactions are permanently recorded through additional blocks. The blockchain serves as a historical record of all transactions from the time a block occurs to the most recent block, hence the name blockchain.

**Block Explorer:** Block Explorer is an online tool used to view all transactions (past and current) on a block. They provide useful information such as network hash rate and transaction growth rate.

**Block Height:** The number of blocks connected to the blockchain.

**Block Reward:** It is a form of incentive for miners who successfully calculate the hash in a block during mining. New coins are generated during the verification of transactions on the blockchain, and miners are rewarded with a portion of them.

**Central Ledger:** A ledger maintained by a central authority.

**Confirmation:** A decentralized confirmation of the success of a transaction that is added to the blockchain.

****[**Consensus**](../applications/bitcoins/consensus.md)**:** A consensus reached when all network participants agree on the validity of a transaction, ensuring that the distributed ledger is an exact copy of each other.

**Cryptocurrency:** Also known as a token, a cryptocurrency is a presentation of a digital asset.

**Cryptographic Hash Function:** A cryptographic hash that produces a fixed size and unique hash value from a variable size transaction input. The SHA-256 calculation algorithm is an example of a cryptographic hash.

**Dapp (decentralized application):** Dapp (decentralized application) is an open source application that runs automatically, stores its data on the blockchain, is motivated by a cryptographic token, and operates with a protocol that shows proof of value.

**DAO (Decentralized Autonomous Organization):** A Decentralized Autonomous Organization can be thought of as a company that operates without any human intervention and gives all forms of control to an unbreakable set of business rules.

**Distributed Ledger:** Distributed Ledger, where data is stored through a network of distributed nodes. A distributed ledger does not have to have its own currency; it may be licensed and private.

**Distributed Network:** A network where processing power and data are distributed across nodes rather than having a centralized data center.

**Difficulty:** This refers to how easy it is to successfully mine blocks of data for transaction information.

**Digital Signature:** A digital code generated by public key encryption that is attached to an electronically transmitted document to authenticate its contents and the identity of the sender.

**Double Spending:** A double payment occurs when a sum of money is spent in excess of a single payment limit.

****[**Ethereum**](../applications/ethereum/)**:** Ethereum is a blockchain-based platform for decentralized operation of smart contracts, designed to solve problems related to censorship, fraud and third-party interference.

**EVM (Ethernet Virtual Machine):** The Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) is a Turing-complete virtual machine that allows anyone to execute any EVM bytecode. Every Ethereum node runs on the EVM to maintain consistency across the blockchain.

**Fork:** A fork from the branch creates a crossover version of the blockchain, running two blockchains in different parts of the network in a compatible manner.

**Genesis Block:** The first block of the blockchain.

**Hard Fork:** A type of branch that makes previously invalid transactions valid, and vice versa. This type of branching requires all nodes and users to upgrade to the latest version of the protocol software.

**Hash:** The act of performing a hash function on the output data. This is used to confirm currency transactions.

**Hash Rate:** A measure of the performance of a mining rig expressed in seconds.

**Hybrid PoS/PoW :** POW (Proof of Work) is the amount of cryptocurrency you receive depending on the amount of work you contribute to mining, the better the performance of the computer, the more mines will be distributed to you. In the POS model, your "mining" revenue is proportional to the age of your coins, regardless of the computing performance of your computer.

Hybrid PoS / PoW can use shared distribution algorithms on the network as shared proof and proof of work. In this approach, a balance between miners and voters (holders) can be achieved, with insiders (holders) and outsiders (miners) creating a community-based governance system.

**KYC:** stands for Know Your Customer, which means know your customer. In the international AML regulations, organizations are required to develop a comprehensive understanding of their customers in order to anticipate and detect unreasonable and potentially illegal business practices.

****[**Merkle tree**](../cryptographic-fundamentals/hash-algorithm-and-merkel-tree.md)**:** The data structure for storing blockchain transaction information, merkle tree is a hash binary tree, the parent node is the result of double sha256 of two child nodes, and the leaf node is the double sha256 result of the content of the transaction.

**Mining:** Mining is the act of verifying blockchain transactions. The necessity of verification is usually rewarded to the miner in the form of currency. During this cryptographically secure boom, mining can be a profitable business when the calculations are done correctly. By selecting the most efficient and suitable hardware and mining targets, mining can generate a steady form of passive income.

**Multi-Signature:** Multi-signed addresses require more than one key to authorize a transaction, adding an additional layer of security.

**Node:** A copy of a ledger operated by a participant in a blockchain network.

**Oracles (database):** Oracle bridges the gap between the real world and the blockchain by providing data to smart contracts.

**Peer to Peer:** (P2P) is a decentralized interaction or more between two parties in a highly interconnected network. Participants in a P2P network negotiate directly with each other through a single mediation point.

**Public Address:** Public addresses are cryptographic hashes of public keys. They are used as email addresses that can be published anywhere, unlike private keys.

**Private Key:** A private key is a string of data that is a token that allows you to access a specific wallet. They are hidden as passwords, except for the owner of the address.

****[**Proof of Work**](../archive/public-chain/proof-of-work.md)**:** POW (Proof of Work) is the amount of cryptocurrency you get depending on the amount of work you contribute to mining, the better the computer performance, the more mines will be distributed to you.

**Proof of Stake:** POS (Proof of Stake) is a system that distributes interest based on the amount of currency you hold and how long you hold it.

**Scrypt**: is a cryptographic algorithm used by Litecoin. It is faster compared to SHA256 because it does not take up much processing time.

**SHA-256:** SHA-256 is the encryption algorithm used by some of the Bitcoin digital currencies. However, it uses a lot of computing power and processing time, forcing miners to form mining pools in order to generate revenue.

****[**Smart Contracts**](../applications/dev-stack/wallet.md)**:** Smart contracts encode business rules in a programmable language onto blocks and are implemented by participants in the network.

**Soft Fork:** Soft branching differs from hard branching in that only previously valid transactions can invalidate it. Soft branches are essentially backward compatible since the old node recognizes the new block as valid. This type of branching requires most miners to upgrade in order to execute, whereas hard branching requires all nodes to agree on the new version.

****[**Solidity**](../decentralized-finance/solidity/)**:** The programming language used by Ethereum to develop smart contracts.

**Token:** Cryptographic digital currency, tokens, such as Bitcoin, Ether, etc.

**Testnet:** A test blockchain used by developers, it is mainly used to prevent changes to assets on the main chain.

**Transaction Block:** A collection of transactions gathered into a block, which can then be hashed and added to the blockchain.

**Transaction Fee:** All cryptocurrency transactions involve a small fee. These fees add up to the block reward miners receive for successfully processing a block.

**Turing Complete:** Turing complete is the ability of a machine to perform any other computation that a programmable computer can perform. An example is the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).

_**UTXO (Unspent Transaction Output)** :_ In Bitcoin, every input and output of a transaction is actually a UTXO, where the input UTXO is what's left of the previous transaction, or more precisely, the output UTXO of the previous transaction.

**Wallet:** A file that contains a private key. It usually contains a software client that allows access to view and create transactions for a specific blockchain designed by the wallet.
